in June last year a computer virus
called Stuxnet was discovered lurking in
the data banks of power plants traffic
control systems and factories around the
world 20 times more complex than any
previous virus code it had an array of
capabilities among them the ability to
turn up the pressure inside nuclear
reactors or switch off oil pipelines and
Stuxnet could tell the system operators
everything was normal unlike most
viruses Stuxnet doesn't carry the usual
forged security clearance that helps
viruses burrow into systems it actually
had a real clearance stolen from one of
the most reputable computer technology
companies in the world it exploited
security gaps that system creators are
unaware of these holes are known as zero
days and the most successful viruses
exploit them the details of a zero day
can be sold on the black market for a
hundred thousand dollars Stuxnet took
advantage of 20 0 days but once it got
into a system it didn't always activate
buried deep in the Stuxnet code was a
specific target without that target the
virus remained dormant what was it
looking to shut down the centrifuges
that's been nuclear material at Iran's
enrichment facilities
Stuxnet was a weapon the first to be
made entirely out of code
the washington-based Institute for
science and international security says
the virus may have shut down a thousand
centrifuges at Natanz Iran's main
enrichment facility last year in
November the International Atomic Energy
Agency the UN's nuclear watchdog said
Iran and suspended work at its nuclear
facilities without explaining why many
observers credited Stuxnet last month
the Iranian government conceded the
virus's infection of the Bashir nuclear
facility still under construction meant
that switching the plant on could lead
to a national electricity blackout Iran
has responded to the attack with an open
call for hackers to join the Iranian
Revolutionary Guard and has reportedly
amassed the second largest online army
in the world so who was behind Stuxnet
there's no evidence beyond rumor some
have it that Israel is responsible
because the virus code apparently
contains references to the Hebrew Bible
others believe the US was involved in
the testing and development the finger
has even been pointed at siemens mobile
phone company whose software is used by
the Iranian regime the most important
question may not be who designed it but
who will redesign it the evolution has
been so fast that nine months after its
detection the first virus that could
crash power grids or destroy oil
pipelines is available online for anyone
to download and tinker with you can
watch people on YouTube pulling Stuxnet
apart it's an open source weapon
and there's no way of knowing who will
use it or what they will use it for